# Time Series Analysis

## Goal
Given Time Series data from a set of machines, identify when the machine transition between normal faulty and failure modes.

## Survival Analysis
Survival analysis is useful when modeling deaths in a population or in this case failure times of machines. The analysis does however rely on a number of key assumptions. All machines are assumed to have identical characteristics and assumed to all be new or at identical levels of wear and tear at the beginning of the data collection period. In addition there are risks using nonparametric models with such a small sample size. It's possible that a much larger sample size would be needed to accurately determine such variations in expected survival time. There does seem to be strong evidence that the failure times are not randomly distributed. In fact, the exponential decay model makes a lot of sense in the context of machine failures where we might expect a proportion of machines p to fail during a time period t. 
## The Exercise

A simple rule based method can be used to automatically detect when a machine enters faulty mode and then failure mode. The methods described above are easy to implement and highly accurate at detecting faults and failures. Based on this analysis faults can be detected in time for the machine to be repaired in 19/20 cases. In addition, failure can be detected within a day or two. Making some additional assumptions we can estimate the remaining lifetime of a machine. For example at the beginning of the time period, a machine might be expected to last for 605 days while after running for 1500 days, it might only be expected to run for 200 more days. These predictions may be innacurate at these low sample size but could be very useful in forcasting the number of repairs that might be needed in a certain time period. 